--- 
wordpress_id: RB-322
layout: post
title: Can has payday?
---

You may know, if you're a frequent reader of this blog, that I am <a
href='http://ryanbigg.com/2012/01/moving-out-down-to-melbourne/'>moving to
Melbourne</a> soon. How soon? This weekend soon.

In order to move, I'm going to pack as many of My Things as I can into My
Car and then Drive to Melbourne. Simple.

When I get to Melbourne, I am going to unpack My Things from My Car and put
them in My Apartment. But I don't own enough Things. When I get to my
Apartment I will need to buy more Things.

For instance, I will need to buy a saucepan that will become My Saucepan. I
may even buy multiple saucepans. I will need to buy a fridge that will be
My Fridge. Oh there are so many things that will be Mine.

But to buy all these things, I am going to be relying on a certain batch of
money. See, moving out wasn't something I planned on doing this soon and so I didn't save up enough of My Money to buy more things to be My Things. That was My Mistake, and I know better now.

This little batch of money happens to be payment for <a href='http://manning.com/katz'>My Book</a>, which is owed to me by <a href='http://manning.com/katz'>My Publisher</a>. I have an email here from the 5th of January that asks to confirm the royalty split between myself and My Co-Author, to which I replied almost 30 minutes later.

There's another email from Yehuda saying that he should get the money from
the copies that were sold before I joined the project, and another shortly
after with me agreeing to this. These emails are on the 6th of January.

There is an email on the 6th of January again, from My Publisher's Acquisitions Guy that simply states "I'll confirm the count before Ryan joined. Should be pretty easy".

Clearly this was not the case, as by the 11th I still had not received My
Money that I would dearly like for My Things. I send another email on the
11th asking "Hey all, how goes the movement on this? I'm moving into a new
place on the 23rd and would love to spend the money on some furniture :)".

Yes, I put a smiley face there. It's something I do.

Again on the 11th, Yehuda replies with "Sorry, what works for me. Whatever
Michael says the count is fine with me.". Okay, so that's now an agreement
from all parties and an explicit statement that I would like My Money in
the not too distant future.

Thanks to the Internet and modern banking systems, it shouldn't be that
difficult.

It is now the 17th January, 12 days since the initial email. 6 days since
the confirmation. I am sure, by now, everyone is back from the New Years
holidays. And yet... there's still no money. There's not even an update
saying that My Money is on its way.

While you may think that waiting simply 6 days for a chunk of money is
simply being impatient (and you'd be right), the way I see it is that I've
been waiting since the middle of September when My Book was published.

The lack of an update makes me sad. I would really like My Money so I can
spend it on more Things to make them become My Things, even going as far as
to furnish My Apartment.

But don't worry, I have money. It's just not My Money. It belongs to Mr
Taxman. And if that money isn't there when Mr Taxman comes around, then Mr
Taxman would not be happy and it'll all be a self-perpetuating cycle of
unhappiness. This money that belongs to Mr Taxman is kept away from My Money so that I don't touch it. It's The Golden Rule. I don't like to break The Golden Rules.

I just really hope that it doesn't turn into <a href='http://www.mikeash.com/pyblog/avoid-apress.html'>something like this</a>. Then we're all fucked.

