---
layout: no-header
title: Recruiters - An (almost) successful recruitment
---

In 2010, I was contacted by a recruitment company who asked if I was
interested in a job working for a big corporation. This recruitement company
had done their research: they knew I was mildly competent at Rails, had
written some documentation, and that I was working on a book at the time.

I was unhappy with my current job and so I went for an interview with this big
corporation. I didn't feel comfortable being another small cog in the big
corporation's machinery, so I (politely) turned down the job.

A few years later, I was on the market again for a new job. Out of all the
recruiters that I had been contacted by over the years, I went back to this
same recruiter who tried to place me in 2010. We talked about the potential
jobs that they could place me in, but I found something outside of those and
worked there.

I went back to this recruiter becuase they showed that they genuinely cared
about my career and finding a great job to suit. While the 2010 job didn't pan
out, they still had done their research and they made me feel like they'd had
used careful consideration deciding which companies I would be suitable for.

----

Too many recruiters these days shotgun-blast a list of emails on a spreadsheet
without doing any more research into the people they're contacting. Sure,
recruiters _do_ have to make their quotas. I believe that this 
shotgun-blasting is an inefficient method, and it is rude.

It shows a lack of care and empathy for the people being contacted. It also
shows that the recruiters using this methodology don't care _who_ gets placed
in the job at the company. Recruiters are paid thousands of dollars per
candidate, and (it seems) a lot of recruiters don't care who they place in
what company. **Because of this, I think that companies are getting a raw deal
from recruiters, and the employees are getting a raw deal as well.**

The only people that profit from this shotgun-blasting are the recruiters themselves.

This is why I ask anyone asking me about job opportunities to make sure that
they have [done their research on me first](/recruiters). I want to know that
they care about me just like that recruiter from the above story. I want to
know that they care about the company finding The Right Person and not Just
Another Warm Body.

**Recruiters: you catch more flies with honey than vinegar.** When contacting
someone, show that you genuinely care about them. Attend the local meetups for
the languages you're hiring for. Socialise with the people you're potentially
hiring. Learn about them. Integrate with them. It's not rocket science.

You'll find that this is a much more effective method than shotgun-blasting a list of emails from a spreadsheet.
